#summary BioPatRec features and video demonstrations

= BioPatRec Highlights =

BioPatRec is a modular platform implemented in MATLAB that allows a seamless integration of a variety of algorithms in the fields of 

 # Signal processing
 # Feature selection and extraction
 # Pattern recognition
 # Real-time control

All these in the context of prosthetic control. 

BioPatRec itself includes all the necessary routines for prosthetic control based in pattern recognition; from data acquisition to real-time evaluations, including a virtual reality environment and pattern recognition algorithms (see below for all features). 

We demonstrate BioPatRec with the real-time control of a virtual hand and multifunctional prosthetic devices (see the videos below).

== General features ==
 * *Modular.* As long as the data structures for information transfer are respected, any module could be substituted.
 * *Customizable.* As a result of the modular design, BioPatRec can be adapted to different experimental settings.
 * *User friendly.* The use of graphical user interfaces (GUIs) facilitates BioPatRec utilization. Moreover, a considerable amount of documentation is available in this wiki for its operation.

== Features per release and module ==

=== !BioPatRec ETT  ===
Available online in the "Downloads" tab.

 * *Recordings*
  * Dedicated GUI for customization of the recording sessions:
   * Recording device, channels and sampling frequency
   * Number and type of movements 
   * Contraction time (cT) and resting time (rT)
  * Recording sessions with visual cues (images and progress bars)
  * Dedicated GUI to load and display recording sessions
  * Signals displayed in time and frequency domains.
  * Graphical navigation tools available (time and frequency range selection, zoom, pan, etc..)
  * Frequency and spatial filters available

 * *Signal treatment and feature extraction*
  * Dedicated GUI for signal processing
  * Movements and channels selection
  * Addition of “rest” as the state of no movements
  * Frequency and spatial filters
  * Signal Segmentation
   * Non-overlapped with selectable _Time Window_
   * Constant overlap with selectable _Time Window_ and _overlap_
  * Customizable construction of the training, validation and testing sets
  * Over 21 time and frequency signal features available
  * Signal treatment and features extraction per single recording sessions, or a group.

 * *Pattern Recognition*
  * Easy selection of signal features
  * Customization of the training, validation and testing sets
  * Pattern recognition and training algorithms (see PatRec)
   * Discriminant Analysis
    * Linear and diagonal linear
    * Quadratic and diagonal quadratic
    * Mahalanobis
   * Artificial Neural Networks - Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) trained by:
    * Back-propagation (BP)
    * Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO)
   * Regulation Feedback Networks (RFN) trained by:
    * Mean
    * Mean + PSO
    * Exclusive mean
  * Different normalization methods
   * Mean 0, Variance 1
   * 0 to 1
   * -1 to 1
  * Optional randomization of data sets
  * Display of accuracy per movement and confusion matrix
  * Automatic computation of pattern recognition statistics (see [PatRec_Statistics])
  * Real-time testing
   * Motion Test
   * Target Control Achievement

 * *Control*
  * Control algorithms:
   * Major voting
   * Buffer output

 * *Virtual Reality Environment* ([VRE])
  * A virtual lower arm with 7 degrees of freedom

=== !BioPatRec TVA ===

Pre-release available upon request.

The TVÅ version contains all features of !BioPatRec ETT, plus:

 * *Recordings*
  * A virtual limb can now display the requested motion to facilitate the user instructions (Screen-Guided Training, SGT).

 * *Signal Treatment*
  * Automatic computation of the "exact" number of time windows available (GUI_SigTreatment). Before, it was likely that you had to complete the total amount manually.

 * *Pattern Recognition*
  * Simultaneous pattern recognition / Pattern recognition of mixed classes
  * Different methods to construct the [xSets] (see PatRec), especially useful for simultaneous movements.
  * Different classifier topologies (see [PatRec_Topologies])
  * New algorithms
   * [MLP_th]
   * [SOM]
   * [SSOM]

 * *Control*
  * New control algorithms:
   * Velocity Ramp

 * *Virtual Reality Environment* ([VRE])
  * The communication now handles fractions
  * Virtual arm
  * Left/Right arms

 * *Real-time tests
  * The Motion Test is now facilitated by using the VRE

 * *Game Control*

See the [Important_coding_changes]

=== !BioPatRec TRE (coming soon) ===

 * *Recordings*
  * Ramp

 * *Signal Treatment*
  * Downsampling option
  * Scaling option to ADC resolution 2^(n-1)

 * *Pattern Recognition*
  * New algorithms
   * [PCA]
   * [ICA]
  * Computation of sensitivity, precision, specificity, NPV, F1

See the [Important_coding_changes]

=== !BioPatRec FRA (coming later) ===

 * *Recordings*
  * Proportional

 * *Signal Treatment*
  * Noise addition

 * *Pattern Recognition*
  * New algorithms
   * [KNN]
   * [SVM]

See the [Important_coding_changes]

= Demonstrations =
Note: If the following videos are not displayed, be sure that you are allowing your browser to run scripts. You will find a little "shield" icon on the top-right of your browser if you are using Chrome. Click it, and allow the scripts.

== Used for the treatment of PLP  ==

<wiki:video url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0wp-SigTeLs"/>

[http://journal.frontiersin.org/Journal/10.3389/fnins.2014.00024/abstract Link to the scientific article]

== Initial testing of simultaneous control  ==

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6W5plVzXe1k&feature=player_detailpage"/>

== Evaluation of simultaneous control  ==

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQ5CYrjAUP0&feature=youtu.be"/>

== Initial testing of a multifunctional prosthesis  ==

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=nxPToKzuXF4"/>

== Initial testing of the Virtual Reality Enviroment ==

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nBixj_vEOQo"/>

== Demonstration of Game Control  ==
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHK8slnn2Us&feature=plcp"/>