#summary BioPatRec software introduction.

= Introduction =

BioPatRec is a modular platform for testing and development of algorithms to be applied in prosthetic control.

 * See [BioPatRec_Highlights] for features, demos, etc…
 * See [BioPatRec_StartupGuide] for quick instructions ("How To's")
 * See [BioPatRec_Requirements] for (yes, exactly) the system requirements.   

= for Programmers =

If you are interested on developing further using this platform, or simple understand the nuts and bolts of !BioPatRec, the following links are for you.

!BioPatRec is structured in different modules, and their related routines can be found inside the folders with the modules' names.

 * [Comm]
 * SigRecordings
 * SigTreatment
 * SigFeatures
 * PatRec
 * DevControl

See [BioPatRec_Roadmap] for quick overview of the relevant functions in each module.

!BioPatRec has a modular design based in data structures. This means that as long as you use the same data structures, you could use the different modules independently if you wish.

 * Data Structures
  * [recSession]
  * [sigTreated]
  * [sigFeatures]
  * [patRec]

If you are planning to contribute or develop further using this platform, you might want to consider the following

 * [Coding_Standard] (simple, easy and useful!)
 * [Copyright_Notice] (keep the connection and fair play)

If you wish to commit changes or upgrades to BioPatRec, the easiest way is to submit a _patch_ using Tortoise. See this [http://www.igorexchange.com/node/87#branches Tortoise SVN Tutorial] for more information.

Join the google group if you are interested on receiving updates
http://groups.google.com/group/biopatrec

= Troubleshooting =

See the [Troubleshooting] page