#summary List of users, collaborators, and contributors

= Who's in? ==

 * Max Ortiz C., EE, PhD.c
  * Natural Control of Artificial Limbs Through an Osseointegrated Implant 
  * *Chalmers University of Technology / Centre of Orthopaedic Osseointegration / Integrum AB, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec developer

 * Nichlas Sander, MSc.
  * Biomedical Engineering and Computer Science
  * *Chalmers University of Technology / Integrum AB, Sweden*
  * [VRE] developer

== Pre-release versions of BioPatRec have been shared to: ==

 * Tim Gale, BE, MEngSc, PhD.
  * Senior Lecturer: Mechatronics and Medical Engineering
  * *University of Tasmania, Australia*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Signal processing and PatRec

 * Ganesh, Naik, PhD.
  * Chancellor's Post Doctoral Research Fellow, A/DRsch Ctre for Health Technologies
  * *University of Technology Sydney, Australia*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Myoelectric signal processing and PatRec

 * Tsvi Achler, MD, PhD.
  * Cognitive Computing
  * *IBM Research, Almaden, USA*
  * !BioPatRec interest: PatRec

 * Jie Liu, PhD.
  * The Sensory Motor Performance Program
  * *Northwestern University, Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, USA*
  * !BioPatRec interest: BioPatRec applied to exoskeletons

 * Christian Antfolk, PhD.
  * Dept. of Measurement Technology and Industrial Electrical Engineering
  * *Lund University, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: PatRec

 * Alexander Boschmann, PhD.c
  * Research Associate, Computer Engineering Group
  * *University of Paderborn, Germany*
  * !BioPatRec interest: PatRec and SVM.

 * Cosima Prahm, PhD.c
  * Department of Surgery, CD Laboratory for Bionic Reconstruction
  * *Medical University of Vienna, Austria*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Real-time control and rehabilitation

 * Daphne Boere, BME, PhD.c
  * Myoelectric transradial prosthesis control
  * *Roessingh Research and Development / University of Twente, the Netherlands*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Myoelectric signal processing and PatRec

 * Vincent Hall, PhD.c
  * Molecular Organisation and Assembly in Cells
  * *University of Warwick, England*
  * !BioPatRec interest: PatRec

 * Ali H. Al-Timemy, PhD.c
  * Centre for Robotics and Neural Systems
  * *Plymouth University, England*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Myoelectric prosthetic control

 * Alejandra Aranceta-Garza, PhD.c
  * Neurohpysiology Bioengineer
  * *Strathclyde University, Scotland*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Myoelectric signal processing and PatRec

 * Ghulam Rasool, PhD.c
  * Systems Engineering Department
  * *University of Arkansas at Little Rock, USA*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Signal processing and myoelectric control

 * Morten Bak Kristoffersen, MSc.
  * Medialogy 
  * *Aalborg University, Denmark*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Augmented Reality

 * Veronika Handrick, MSc.c
  * Biomedical Eng.
  * *University of Applied Sciences Jena, Germany*
  * !BioPatRec interest: General

 * Alf B. Bertnum, MSc.c / Kristian Berrum, MSc.c
  * Engineering Cybernetics
  * *Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Initial contribution to [NTNU] section.

 * Joel Falk-Dahlin, MSc.c
  * Complex Adaptive System, Applied Physics.
  * *Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Post-processing and control

 * Luca Caltagirone, MSc.c
  * Complex Adaptive System, Applied Physics.
  * *Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Signal processing and PatRec

 * Joakim Arver, MSc.c
  * Biomedical Eng.
  * *Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Initial contributions on the [VRE]

 * Ali Fouad, MSc.c / Siva Kumar, MSc.c
  * Complex Adaptive Systems / Biomedical Eng.
  * *Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: [PCA], [ICA], [KNN] and [SOM]

 * Prathamesh Dhanpalwar, MSc.c
  * Biomedical Eng.
  * *Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Myoelectric signals acquisition

 * Per Förstberg, MSc.c / Gustav Josefsson, MSc.c
  * Biomedical Eng.
  * *Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Analog front ends and myoelectric signal acquisition

 * !GauravJit Singh, BS.c
  * Biomedical Eng.
  * *Drexel University, USA*
  * !BioPatRec interest: Prosthetic devices and control


Note: To avoid hurting anyone's feelings, the title used corresponds to the time in which they initially received !BioPatRec, unless otherwise requested.