#summary A description of the NTNU contribution

NOTE: This is an ongoing development and therefore the documentation is not yet finalised.

= Introduction =

These pages will contain a documentation of the contributions from NTNU. Since this still is a ongoing work, it will be separated from the main hierarchy at this moment.

At this instance, the purpose of this work, is to implement the functionality already in place at the lab at the Institute of Cybernetics at NTNU, over to the !BioPatRec system.

The main area of development the last years, have been simultaneous proportional myoelectric control ^[1]^.


= Details =

Currently, the model being developed, is split into four parts:
 * [NTNU_Preprocessing Preprocessing]
 * [NTNU_Intent_interpretation Intent interpretation]
 * [NTNU_Output Output]
 * [NTNU_System_training System training]

Each of the three first parts, are representing the steps in the model from the work of Fougner ^[1]^, see figure *"to be inserted"*, and beside the model is a scenario of simultaneous proportional control. The last part, [NTNU_System_training system training], is containing information about the training of the system, thereof screen guided training (SGT) and prosthesis guided training (PGT). In the figure being shown, the system training is fed into part 4 during the offline-training of the algorithms.

= References =
 # Fougner, Anders. Robust, Coordinated and Proportional Myoelectric Control of Upper-Limb Prostheses. Diss. Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 2013.