#summary Popular "science" on artificial limbs

= Popular “Science” on Artificial Limbs / Bionic Limbs / Robotic Prostheses =

If you are looking at this page as an introduction to the field, or just for curiosity, please be aware that the content of these articles has not been scientifically reviewed, and therefore any information provided must be taken with caution, and not as the absolute truth. Of course, we cannot generalize completely, as few of them can be rather accurate.

It is probably not a surprise for anybody the fact that the media tend to exaggerate and raise false expectations on what science and technology can currently offer. At the same time, there is no doubt that the amount and quality of the work done by the scientists and engineers featured in these videos deserves recognition and respect. Unfortunately, their work is often misinterpreted by some “journalist” that feel that without exaggerated promises of futuristic achievements, it is not interesting enough to be published. With that being said, it is our responsibility as a community of professionals and scientists to share and comment on these articles, so please feel free to do so!


== Quick and true facts: ==

 * We don’t really have the technology today to fully replace the functionality of a biological limb, thus we are not really close to create a “Robocop”, and definitely there is no need to worry about the threat of “Terminator” anytime soon.

 * The term "bionic" is often misused and therefore now ambiguous. There was a time when it meant an augmentation to the biological capabilities (stronger, faster, more accurate, etc...). Although originally was more on the side of biologically inspired mechatronics. Anyway, the fact is that if we cannot fully replace the biological limbs, we can hardly augmented them, as an exoskeleton would do for instance.

 * The media often use the phrase "mind controlled" or "thought controlled". This is at some extend true, but only because the brain basically controls everything we do! However, this might give the false impression that the prosthesis is controlled by simple "imagining" or "thinking", without any other muscular or physiological response, whereas in reality these signals are often recorded from muscles or the motor cortex rather than in any other area of the brain where "imagination" can take place (e.g. prefrontal cortex).
 
 * Most of the advanced technology presented by the media has only been used in controlled environments (research labs), and is it not really close to be a clinical reality for patients.

 * Lower limb prosthetics currently do a better job restoring functionality than upper limb prosthetics.

 * We have progressed tremendously on the hardware and software of robotic arms; we are now struggling on how to control them. As today, we CANNOT really do it naturally and intuitively OUTSIDE of controlled environments. We can do it with limited degrees of freedom within the lab and in short periods of time. Sadly, most of the media uses this to insinuate that patients are doing it in their daily activities as well.

 * We have rather advanced prosthetic devices since the last decade, and yet, most of the patients do not use robotic/powered prostheses at all! That is probably the greatest indicator that most of the sophisticated prosthetics we see in the media, can only be used in the lab. 

 * Although the previous points are rather pessimistic, there are a lot of intelligent and dedicated people trying to improve robotic prostheses, so we'll get there!

== Media on artificial limbs ==
*Control*
 * [http://www.newsweek.com/mind-controlled-prosthetic-arm-tested-sweden-276281 Mind-Controlled Prosthetic Arm Tested in Sweden] by Newsweek, Oct 2014.
 * [http://www.nature.com/news/artificial-arms-get-closer-to-the-real-thing-1.16111 Artificial arms get closer to the real thing] by Nature News, Oct 2014.
 * [http://www.armytimes.com/videonetwork/3167215175001/Marine-is-First-to-Receive-Experimental-Prosthetic-Control-System Marine is first to recieve experimental prosthetic control system] by Military Times, 2014.
 * [http://www.npr.org/2014/03/07/283458260/can-a-prosthetic-limb-feel Can a prosthetic limb feel?] by TED hour, Mar 2014.
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=io-jtlPv7y4 Robotic Drumming Prosthesis] by Georgia Tech, Mar 2014.
 * [http://www.bbc.com/news/health-26036429 Bionic hand allows patient to 'feel'] by BBC, 5 Feb 2014.
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n9wyyuxI9Y8 Restoration of natural sensation] by Cleveland VAMC and CWRU, Dec 2013. 
 * [http://www.cnbc.com/id/101233869 How the business of bionics is changing lives] by CNBC in Nov 2013.
 * [https://soundcloud.com/sciencelife/november-2013-touching-me Touching me, Touching you] by Science Life, Nov 2013.
 * [http://www.cnn.com/2013/10/02/tech/innovation/bionic-leg-orig-ideas/ Bionic leg helps shark-attack victim walk] by CNN in Oct 2013. 
 * [http://www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/Chicago-Doctors-Unveil-First-Thought-Controlled-Bionic-Leg-225250672.html Chicago Doctors Unveil First Thought-Controlled Bionic Leg] by NBC and [http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn24265-man-controls-new-prosthetic-leg-using-thought-alone.html#.UlFY31BmjTo NewScientists] in Sep 2013.
 * [http://www.scienceupdate.com/2012/12/arm/ Thought-controlled prosthetics] by AAAS in Dec 2012.
 * [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-17139965 Can you build a bionic body? The arm] by BBC News in Mar 2012.
 * [http://vimeo.com/43486048# Hugh Herr, Bionic Man - Part 1] by The Next List in Jun 2012.
 * [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-tyne-16746496 Soldier Andrew Garthwaite to get bionic arm controlled by mind] by BBC News in Jan 2012.
 * [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-12499818 Thought-controlled devices a step closer] By BBC in Feb 2011.
 * [http://news.discovery.com/tech/videos/tech-man-controls-robotic-hand-with-mind.htm Man controls robotic hand with mind] by Discovery Channel in Dec 2010.
 * [http://cnettv.cnet.com/2001-1_53-50005779.html '60 Minutes': Revolutionizing prosthetics] by CBS News sometime before 2009.
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6R5bm6qx2E Cutting edge prosthetic arms] by Pentagon Channel sometime before May 2008.

*Hardware*
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9NOncx2jU0Q Amputee Makes History with APL’s Modular Prosthetic Limb] by JHU, Dec 2014.
 * [http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2014-05/12/darpa-robotic-limb-fda-approval Darpa's super-dexterous robot arm gets FDA approval] by Wired UK, May 2014.
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y1T9sS4A7To How its Made Artificial Limbs (socket attachment)] by How Its Made, 21 Jan 2014.
 * [http://edition.cnn.com/video/#/video/international/2013/05/02/art-movement-michael-mcloughlin-robotic-arm.cnn Robotic arm grasps the future] by CNN in May 2013.
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3HsccKwoeOM&feature=related Modular Prosthetic Limb] by JHU/APL sometime before Feb 2011.
 * [http://youtu.be/R0_mLumx-6Y Dean Kamen's Robotic "Luke" Arm] by Spectrum Magazine in 2008.

*Hardware on budget*
 * [http://www.gizmag.com/3d-printed-prosthetic-hand/34615/?utm_source=Gizmag+Subscribers&utm_campaign=30149df3b2-UA-2235360-4&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_65b67362bd-30149df3b2-76705984 Low-cost 3D-printed prosthetic hand to be tested on amputees in Ecuador] by Gizmag in Nov 2014.
 * [http://www.gereports.com/post/93402305860/the-boy-and-the-bionic-hand-a-chance-hospital The Boy and the Bionic Hand] by GE in Aug 2014.
 * [http://www.gizmag.com/inexpensive-prostheses/26009/ Inexpensive home-brewed prostheses created using 3D printers] by Gizmag in Jan 2013.

*Alternatives*
 * [http://youtu.be/FTJW5YSRZhw 7 Finger Robot] by MIT July 2014.

== Media on commercially available prostheses ==

 * [http://edition.cnn.com/video/?/video/business/2013/01/31/make-create-innovate-i-limb-prosthetics-will-am-britney-spears.cnn#/video/business/2013/01/31/make-create-innovate-i-limb-prosthetics-will-am-britney-spears.cnn The bionic hand with the human touch] by CNN in Jan 2013.
 * [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-13378036 Amputee Patrick demonstrates his new bionic hand] by BBC news in May 2011.

== Media related BioPatRec ==

 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRmYNwWRR78 Why Amputees Get Virtual Reality Limbs] by Dnews in Mar 2014.
 * [https://theconversation.com/phantom-menace-augmented-reality-eases-missing-limb-pain-23479 Phantom menace: augmented reality eases missing limb pain] by The Conversention in Feb 2014.
 * [http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-26327457 Virtual arm eases phantom limb pain] by BBC in Feb 2014.
 * [http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/health/2014/02/26/virtual-reality-gives-amputee-real-life-relief/ Virtual Reality Gives Amputee Real-Life Relief] by ABC in Feb 2014.
 * Other languages
  * [http://www.futuremag.fr/emission/emission-16 Futuremag #16] by ARTE May 2014 (French, starts 08:20)
  * [http://www.futuremag.de/sendung/sendung-16 Futuremag #16] by ARTE May 2014 (German, starts 08:20)

== Talks and Academic Lectures ==

Keep in mind that presenters would mostly focused on their group's work, and of course their own approach to the different problems.

==== Control ====
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6J_I9NlkHJc Targeted Muscle Reinnervation] by nanoHUB.org, Apr 2014.
 * [http://www.ted.com/talks/hugh_herr_the_new_bionics_that_let_us_run_climb_and_dance#t-534507 Hugh Herr: The new bionics that let us run, climb and dance] at TED,  Mar 2014.
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLvwTlbj1Y8 Todd Kuiken: A prosthetic arm that "feels"] at TED, Jul 2011.
 * [http://youtu.be/3dGgSuaQg1s Bionic Being: The New Prosthetics] by Shawn Kelly at Carnegie Mellon University, Jun 2011.
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_NGycsdW5o Robotics: New Possibilities in Prosthetic Limbs] by Michael Goldfarb at Vanderbilt University, 2010.

==== Hardware ====
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jaRNbgRK8k4 A helping hand with prosthetics] by TEDx Exeter, Apr 2013.
 * [http://www.ted.com/talks/david_sengeh_the_sore_problem_of_prosthetic_limbs The sore problem of prosthetic limbs] by TED, Mar 2014.
 * [http://www.ted.com/talks/krista_donaldson_the_80_prosthetic_knee_that_s_changing_lives The $80 prosthetic knee that's changing lives] by TED Women, Dec 2013.
 * [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RiJzJ771vDw Dean Kamen: New prosthetic arm for veterans] by TED, Mar 2007.

==== Human ====
 * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2QZM7azGoA&sns%3Dem Living beyond limits] by TED, Jun 2011.
 * [http://www.ted.com/talks/aimee_mullins_on_running Changing my legs - and my mindset] by TED, Feb 1998.